Bio
---
Matt Godbolt is a software engineer with trading firm DRW, and the creator of the Compiler Explorer website. 
He is passionate about writing efficient code. He has previously worked at on mobile apps at Google, run his own C++ 
tools company and spent more than a decade making console games.

Title
-----
Unbolting the Compiler's Lid, or What Has My Compiler Done For Me Lately?

Tags
----
compilers,assembly,optimization

Session Description
-------------------
In 2012, Matt and a colleague were arguing whether it was efficient to use the then-new-fangled range for. During the 
discussion a bash script was written to quickly compile C++ source and dump the assembly. Five years later and that 
script has grown into a website relied on by many to quickly see the code their compiler emits, to compare different 
compilers' code generation and behaviour, to quickly prototype and share code, and investigate the effect of optimization flags.

In this talk Matt will not only show you how easy (and fun!) it is to understand the assembly code generated by your
compiler, but also how important it can be. He'll explain how he uses Compiler Explorer in his day job programming 
low-latency trading systems, and show some real-world examples. He'll demystify assembly code and give you the tools 
to understand and appreciate how hard your compiler works for you.

He'll also talk a little about how Compiler Explorer works behind the scenes, how it is maintained and deployed, and 
share some stories about how it has changed over the years. By the end of this session you'll be itching to take your 
favourite code snippets and start exploring what your compiler does with them.

Material
--------
Slides, any links and source code used.

Outline
-------
* Backstory
* Demo
  * Including assembly 101, or how to fake it at assembly
  * Compilers are super-smart!
  * Appropriately defeating the optimizer to see what you'd expect
  * Demo some "power features" that some people don't necessarily know about (diff view, multiple editors) - depends on
    screen resolution of the project and visibility.
  * A warning: MEASURE EVERYTHING! Limitations of "just" looking at the assembly output (dovetails with hash maps below)
* Case Studies, including things like:
  * Loop iteration shoot-out, pre-increment vs post-increment vs range-for vs std::algorithms
  * Hash maps, GCC's STL unordered_map vs boost multi-index
  * Compiler Explorer in low-latency trading: formatting exchange orders (and/or processing market data)
  * Undefined behaviour is your friend, or how clang beats gcc with linked list iteration
  * Unpicking your object model, or devirtualisation for dummies
  * Plus, many, many more (allocation elision in clang, non-virtual thunks, write combining, address sanitisation)
* How other people use it, including things like
  * Compiler teams (e.g. at Google)
  * Slack
  * Twitter competition to "generate most code from 140c of code"
  * Template metaprogramming REPL using constepr
  * Minimal bug reports for compilers / search for regressions
* Peeking behind the curtain: how CE works
  * The code (and how to run it locally)
  * The compilers (and how to get most of them locally yourself)
  * The magic that runs on Amazon's infrastructure
* Conclusions and call to action! 
  * Everyone should be using this!
  * Thanks to my contributors and patreon supporters
  * Help wanted

History
-------
None

Video
-----
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hgcNM-6wr34&t=853s
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7WuRq-Wmw5o&t=1s
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=37jyHQT7fXQ&t=2625s
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jD_PjSsHHTE
